Archiving an AWS provides some very low cost options that offer
trade-offs that architects need to consider before selecting an archive solution.
While some companies will use S3 for archive because it's fast and durable,
there are lower cost options that offer
the same reliability and similar performance at a much lower price point.
First, they can use a middle tier archive called S3 IA or Infrequent Access.
It provides a cost reduction when compared to S3 Standard.
It isn't quite as economical as S3 Glacier,
but IA does allow you to access the objects you need immediately, unlike S3 Glacier.
Amazon has always made it known that their S3 Glacier archives service,
sacrifices performance in order to bring the cost of archive down as low as possible.
That performance sacrifice means that retrieving an object from
Glacier could take anywhere from a few minutes to several hours.
S3 IA is ideal for long-term storage,
backups and as a data store for disaster recovery files.
But Glacier is only appropriate for files that you rarely
use and that you can wait possibly hours to retrieve.
When you make a request to retrieve data from S3 Glacier,
you initiate a retrieval job for an archive.
Once the retrieval job completes,
your data will be available to download or access using Amazon EC2 for 24 hours.
Glacier Expedite retrievals, allow you to pay to quickly access your data,
when an occasional urgent request arises.
Expedited file retrieval, usually takes place between one and five minutes.
In addition, there are two types of Expedited retrievals: On-demand and provisioned.
On-demand requests are fulfilled when Amazon
can complete the retrieval within 1-5 minutes.
Provision capacity retrievals allow you to pay in advance so you can ensure that
AWS has retrieval capacity for your Expedited retrievals available when you need them.
Each unit of capacity ensures that at least three Expedited retrievals can be
performed every five minutes and provides up to 150 megabytes of retrieval throughput.